I think lawyers are quite good at
learning, but in a law firm structure,
as much time goes into apprenticeship.
It's a teaching hospital. You don't
actually spend that much time getting
really good at teaching because you just
do it through reps and reps and reps and
reps. And so actually explaining things
um is something that like I think is
going to be a very prized skill for not
just lawyers, but for any domain
experts, but in particular lawyers. And
we're seeing it like when you can make
an AI do this thing that you've been
doing and not enjoying doing, it is like
the most magical experience ever. And
we're watching that like on a weekly
basis.
[Music]
In this episode, we explore a
fascinating approach to building
services as software with the founders
of Crosby, an AI first law firm focused
on legal contract automation.
Ryan and John share why they chose to
build a law firm rather than legal
software and how doing the work
themselves creates unique telemetry and
feedback loops that traditional evals
don't capture. Ryan and John also
discuss their approach to agent
orchestration from parallegal level
routing to senior associate level
contractor view and share their vision
for a Robin Hoodlike future where
anybody has access to highquality legal
services thanks to AI. Enjoy the show.
John and Ryan, welcome to the show.
Thank you so much you guys.
>> All right, first question maybe kick us
off. What is Crosby? Tell us a little
bit about the company you've built.
>> Great. So Crosby is an AI first law
firm. We focus entirely on contracts. So
the theory is that we can automate human
negotiations. So getting people to agree
on terms and the best way to do that is
with a contract. Contracts turns out are
everywhere. Um they're your lease,
they're your offer letter. Um and
they're under most business
transactions. And it turns out the best
way to do this and to automate it is by
building an in-house a law firm,
understanding how lawyers work and then
trying to replace as much of that
agentically to get uh contracts closed
faster.
>> And can you talk about the decision to
build a law firm versus to build legal
software because many entrepreneurs in
your path, you know, not in the legal
space necessarily, but have chosen the
path to build software companies. Uh why
build a services company? So maybe I'll
talk about like structurally why we sort
of chose this and then John you can talk
about on a more applied level how we
built the team and how that works.
>> For sure.
>> So I think structurally zooming out a
little bit you know the market for legal
services has always put a huge premium
on human capital and it's in some ways
like a VC firm. I think like you're
really investing in the people who work
there and getting them better and better
and better and trying to keep those
experts or your partners around for as
long as possible. And that made a lot of
sense where a lot of that work um was
very specialized and couldn't really be
offloaded to technology. And there's a
growing sense in the last 30 years, but
in particular the last three that's
changed. And
you're looking now for a new model that
allows you to actually innovate in the
kinds of tasks you can offload from
humans to uh technology. And it just
like has never happened in a law firm
before. But all the raw materials are
there. The experts that know how to
build things are there. But a law firm
partnership, for example, doesn't allow
you to invest in speculative things like
building technology because you can't
sell equity and only law firm partners
can take loans that are recourse. So it
just doesn't work. But we had this
theory from a structural standpoint that
if we get the structure correct and
Atrium improved this 5 years ago, um you
would start to see really quick um
iteration cycles and the way that you
can actually innovate. So that's the
theory at least.
>> Yeah. And then putting that into
practice, I think having your domain
experts sit side by side with your
engineers creates such a unique feedback
loop where it's more than just eval.
It's actually using the product,
experiencing it, doing user research and
understanding what are the critical
workflows, what are the biggest gaps and
actually being able to, you know,
recognize and say from start to finish
like you know it's more than just a
benchmark. It's actually like an
environment to create that opportunity
to whether it's innovate on like these
specific like how do you review a
contract faster but also the individual
bits and pieces of like hey is this red
line exactly correct or is that the
right word choice for what we need here.
>> I think you know historically people
have attempted this so they've combined
some software as well as the services
side together. tell us a little bit more
about why some of these previous
attempts might not have worked but also
today operationally you have AI
engineers sitting next to lawyers how
actually does that work like how do you
make that successful
>> so maybe on that first part of the
question why hasn't this exactly worked
before and what might be different now
other than the obvious which is you know
the state-of-the-art for for AI um I
think it actually hasn't been tried that
much and it's an extremely daring thing
to do and we've seen great innovation in
accounting actually in management
consulting and when you even look at the
corporate entities fewer and fewer of
those entities are partnership
structures and they move to CC corps and
that's a really good proxy for how much
they invest in long-term technology and
a technology we've had two or in law
we've had two or three companies Atrium
and before that clear spire actually try
this in a meaningful way and a bunch of
things didn't quite pan out one was that
tight coordination which I think John
you should speak more to between lawyers
and engineers and we literally in our
office have desks staggered lawyer
engineer lawyer engineer in order to get
those feedback cycles and to incent them
to really collaborate. Um and the other
piece I think is and this is what is
like truly unique is that huge chunks of
the qualitative uh thoughtful work that
lawyers are doing each day can actually
now be delegated to machines. And this
is like it's hard to overstate how
complex that is and how new it is.
>> Yeah. And then putting that into
practice, you know, I think that means
two things. It means product velocity
and it means actually instrumentation.
How do you think about metrics? What
we're doing is an operationally heavy
business, right? You can actually
instrument and think about we get a
contract, it comes in, we send it out
really quickly. We need to make sure
we're meeting things like our SLA, which
is measured by our turnaround time, how
many human touch points were involved in
actually every contract from start to
finish. And if you can actually
understand and say, hey, here are all
the individual touch points. Here's how
long each touch point took and here are
are the highest value touch points we
can automate today and just start, you
know, hammering away at those. I think
the other thing when you think about
product velocity is it's more than just,
you know, shipping product for the sake
of shipping it.
Do these leading inputs actually lead to
customer metrics? Because even though
this is an operational heavy business,
you need to be thinking about what is
the end customer goal that we're trying
to solve for here. Ultimately, our
customers come to us because they trust
us and we do high quality contract
reviews for them. And you know, it's
companies like Cursor because they're
growing so quickly. Like these companies
are growing faster than ever before. And
we really need to just like be able to
meet their standards and their bar of
like what excellence and what speed
looks like and actually taking you know
all this product velocity these input
metrics and actually converting those
into these lagging indicators of like
are we meeting their SLAs's are we
delivering on time are we reducing the
number of human touch points and then
that's actually how you can drive the
impact.
>> Maybe I'll just add something that we've
only started to like really get our
hands around now. I think a year ago
when John and I started working on this
idea, we had a strong intuition that
structuring this like a law firm was
just accessible for companies who wanted
to buy some sort of AI enabled service
because there's so much excitement and
people want to try it. But there's
something subtle which is um legal
services I think economists call it a
credence good which means that you only
know how good it is after you've
experienced it and consumed it and you
need an expert to actually tell you the
quality. a lay person or even not a lay
person, a sophisticated CEO often
doesn't know um by definition how good
their legal work is. And so you want to
know that a lawyer is looking at it. Um
and so by structuring as this law firm,
I think we're taking like the the most
promising aspects of what AI can do, but
still putting all of the sort of right
um safety parameters around it and
structures of having an expert tell you
this is good quality or this is you know
and this is safe. How do you think about
innovating on the pricing and packaging
layer? Like I think of law as you know
one of the most interesting for the AI
wave because it's one of the most you
know technology disruptive but also in
terms of pricing model if you're billing
by the hour right
>> making it more efficient doesn't doesn't
really help anything right and so say a
word on how much pricing innovation
you're doing.
>> Yeah. So this was an early decision that
we almost made
>> um without thinking too hard about it
and it's it's just and then it's just
been a constraint which is no billable
hour and that's like for us very
dramatic but for it was so obvious
>> that it would be an interesting wedge to
get people's attention
>> and it would align incentives within the
company that we didn't think twice about
it and so what that looks like today is
billing by the document and um I think
there's a few things to say about that
the first is the billable hour people
have been predict predicting the death
of the billable hour for like 70 years.
It it only became popular in the 50s.
It's kind of novel. Um but it's just
really durable and it makes a lot of
sense for really sophisticated work
where it's hard to x aanti predict how
much work it will be. So actually I
think part of what we're innovating on
which we didn't we really could not have
guessed a year ago is being able to
predict from time zero how long this
piece of work is going to take so that
we can price it and still you know make
sure that we're doing the work properly
that we align with the value that we're
giving the clients and you know that's
like where things get really interesting
because you have to predict you know how
many times will this contract go back
and forth. we have to look at it five
times, three times, two times um in
order to price the amount of you know in
order to price document properly.
>> Yeah. So interesting.
>> Yeah.
>> And you've been a lawyer before when
when you say you guys are automating
legal uh contract work. Maybe just take
us through what a what a human lawyer
does today when negotiating a contract
and what types of contracts are we
talking? Are we talking NDAs? Are we
talking merger agreements, employment
agreements, everything in between?
>> Yeah. So so many points I could I could
go on. So they'll cut me off.
So right now we focus on NDAs, MSAs,
DPAs. I think every tech person will be
very familiar with this because you're
selling a B2B product. This is what
you're dealing with. And I'd say NDAs
are sort of from a complexity
standpoint, you know, uh a good deal
less complex than MSAs and DPA is
actually quite a step to get to the MSA
DPAs. um you know NDA is two pages MSA
is 15 but they're probably what would
you say like maybe 80 times more complex
there's just so many more terms to
negotiate and then you can go all the
way up to the merge agreements which is
you know probably a thousandx more
complex lawyers today
really try to predict in looking at all
the terms in a contract the right things
you should and shouldn't agree to based
on mental models of what's safe and
unsafe and kind of having to calibrate
for your business. you know, we want to
get you to sign this contract. And so
some of the clients we're dealing with
are signing dozens of contracts a day,
right? These are cursor and clay and
unifi that are growing so quickly, but
you you want to insulate the business
from too much risk. And I think so
that's what lawyers do. And there's a
lot of guidelines and general benchmarks
and consensus on like what is sort of
market here, but it's really like
ethereal. It exists in the minds of
lawyers and two reasonable lawyers will
disagree on what those things are. And
this is a subtle last point that I'll
just touch on which is you know lawyers
are essentially these private actors
that are building a public good which is
the legal infrastructure which is all
the contracts that ever get negotiated
go into this public domain sort of of
like what is a reasonable allocation of
risk and so by automating this and this
is where you know I think John gets
really interested in the generalizing
benchmarks um we can start to actually
say quantitatively here's what that
infrastructure should look like not like
here's my best guess of what's a
reasonable contract, but like we can
actually give you a metric or a
statistical guess on like here's a risky
or safe bet to take.
>> Yeah. I think concretely taking the
vibes and heruristics inside of a lawyer
lawyer's head and converting that into
an actual probabilistic quantitative
number and saying like, hey, how likely
should you be to accept Delaware or
California or New York governing law
when you're in the specific negotiation?
I think there's something innately you
know human about that in terms of that
agreement but at the same time there's a
lot of market data and you can actually
start dissecting and understanding like
what are the levers you have to allocate
risk in your business and you know
circling back to what founders should be
thinking about as they're thinking about
these businesses like you know which
state you go to court in is like you
know that's there's only 50 states
thankfully for now um
extending that into you know the long
tale of what work you could do. I think
it's really easy to confound like PMF of
like your customer is asking you to do
this thing and we'll pay you to do this
thing versus like being an actual
services business like you need to
actually understand what is automatable,
what is repeatable. What are the
specific signals and levers you have to
push that automation forward?
>> Maybe let's dig into that actually. What
what parts of even the product today?
What parts of it are the LLM or AI
model? What parts of it are the lawyer?
What parts of it are more workflow
software? And how does that change over
time, too?
>> Yeah, I think it's been so interesting
in the past, you know, 5 10 years, the
amount of investment. I'm sure you guys
have seen this firsthand, so I'd love
your take on this, too. Like the amount
of investment in NLP research. It's just
like, you know, problems that were
>> state-of-the-art five years ago are now
like warm-up problems in a Stanford like
freshman year class. And I think it's
just been so interesting to say like
okay this is what tools we have
available to us now in terms of like
zooming back out into like the specific
models and what we can automate today.
You know it comes down to context. When
AlexNet and all the first models were
starting to do image classification,
right? You had a a picture of something
and you try to classify it. All you
needed was the picture. You know, now
you start thinking about like you're
looking at an MRI and you're trying to
classify it. Well, you're looking at the
MRI, but you also might get some
additional context from maybe the
patient's history and some other
metadata about the patient. I think
language models are now taking that to
the extreme.
The language models say basically, give
me as much context as is necessary to
understand this problem and make some
type of decision on it. And to answer
your question around the workflows
versus the language models today, it
starts with how can you context engineer
for a human lawyer, right? How do you
give all the right tools and these
building blocks to expand what's
available to the lawyer and actually
automate their manual workflows that
they were doing? Once you have those
building blocks, then it becomes a
question, okay, what are the parts that
a lawyer is doing that you can now align
the language model with and say, hey,
how accurately can you replicate what
behavior this human is doing? And I
think my hot take here is I think
everyone focuses on these general like
you know reinforcement like RHF and all
these general purpose like aligning it
to the maximum amount of data available.
Really what you want to do in some of
these specific scenarios is align it to
a specific person, right? Because like
Ryan said like even getting two lawyers
to agree on one specific contract may
require a lot of back and forth and
tension even if they work for the same
firm. And if you can actually align it
more accurately with one individual, you
can start to say like this is correct,
this is wrong because that person is
internally consistent even though two
people might disagree on that.
>> So you would have almost individualized
models for each of the different
lawyers. Is that kind of the scenario?
>> So I I think the two the two thesis here
are I think also fundamentally people
are not thinking about per customer eval
or per customer fine-tuning enough. I
think per customer fine-tuning and eval
are a really high ROI way, especially if
you have a large ACV, to make your
product reach multiple nines of
accuracy. One of the dangerous traps of
language models today is they get to 90%
for basically free. The foundation
models have done an incredible job and
we love our partners at OpenAI,
Anthropic, and Google for giving us such
wonderful tools.
But one of the dangers is they get to
90% and getting them to 99 or 99.99 is
actually extremely difficult. And part
of the way all the levers you have are
thinking about like what are the ways I
can adjust these prompts per customer?
What are the ways I can fine-tune this
model per customer? And then you can
actually deliver you know not just a
four-star experience but a fivestar
product experience because really that's
what you're trying to achieve at the end
of the day. But I'd be curious for your
guys' read in terms of like the amount
of you know in ter the investment for
the language models and how you've seen
it shape in terms of like these per
customer like these more enterprise
focused verticals. I think it partly
depends on what you know data is
actually in distribution for them
because I think whatever data is in
distribution they will I think they are
continuing to improve at a rate where
they will probably get there very very
far versus I think if your point is for
a certain enterprise most of their data
the really interesting data for their
contracts you will never have access to
as a foundation model company and we
could get access to individuals
specifically and I can create you know
more like RL fine-tuned model for you
that understands your context. Like I
think that makes sense because it is
data that is not in distribution for the
large model companies.
>> I agree with that. Good take. You guys
have some very discerning customers. I
think I heard Clay and Curser mentioned.
>> Um tell us about what they what they
like most about you. Is it that you're
smart AI people? Is it that you can turn
around a contract extremely quickly? Is
it that you can turn around a contract
cheaper than somebody who's not using
AI? like what is the customerf facing
value prop
>> um for these companies and it's we've
really crystallized this over several
months it's
deal velocity
>> and
what we think a lot about is just the
the the acceleration of startups today
and everything is going faster right the
sales motions are going faster I mean
you look at clay right like they're you
know enabling sales teams to move that
much faster the way that you hire
everything and contract negoti ations
which is like the sort of critical
piece. It literally is the sort of way
you plug in with your customers. The API
for business is what we call it is kind
of unchanged for 40 years basically
since the word processor came out. And
so this idea that we can unlock speed in
two ways from the time that they send us
a contract to the time that they get it
back. This is typically the AE or the
salesperson. We're just unlocking their
speed that they get back to their
client. or also doing reviews in a more
thoughtful way so that rather than doing
five or six back and forths, we can sort
of predict, okay, if we just agree to
this term and only push back on these
three, we're going to save one turn. So,
this will be a whole week faster. Um,
these are the main things.
>> And what's kind of interesting is, you
know, as John was saying, sort of
quality and taste are these somewhat
intangible things that are threshold
questions for these kinds of agreements,
right? you have to hit some reasonable
amount of quality. But the but but I
think and I think most great lawyers,
the one the GCs that I really admire and
spend a lot of time with understand
their job is business drivers, right?
And they are unlocking the growth of
their companies and they they position
themselves that way. Um, and so that's
the key. And structuring ourselves with
lawyers in the loop in a really clever
way
allows us to have the oversight of
lawyers and kind of all the safety and
the quality is what I mentioned before,
but see how much we can really push the
limits on. You know, right now we do a
contribution, median times are at a
little under an hour. Can we get that to
minutes like while still having making
sure that the right terms get in front
of the right lawyers at the right times?
Um, and these are like the fascinating
questions. Yeah. And what does it take
to get there if you think like what
needs to happen for it for that to be
possible?
>> So I think what's really nice and I
think the reason why John and I were so
excited about doing this interview
together and why typically we're
speaking together is we had this really
unique marriage of you know technical
expertise really understanding the
cutting edge of AI um as much as I love
chatbt and um and like and like what
lawyers are really good at. And what's
interesting is like when John and I
started working together, I don't know
if this is a fair call out. You know,
John was constantly asking for evals.
And I was like, that's fine, we'll work
on this, but I I can look at it in 10
seconds tell you, right? Like just put
it in my hands. And lawyers have a very
visceral sense because it's taste based
based on their training, based on their
risk profiles, which is a little unique
to each client, just immediately what
looks good. And so the more we've been
able to get, you know, prompting tools
and um actual sort of input and outputs
in the hands of the lawyers that we have
um at Crosby, it's amazing just like it
just it's just velocity. Like we had we
actually hired more engineers and
lawyers at the beginning and we were
sort of I felt like a little bit like we
were sort of revving the engine a little
bit without clicking into gear and then
lawyers came and it was like we we
stepped into gear. They just had people
to give them like all the inputs of no
no that's like right that's sort of we
should go that direction. Um, so that's
that's like a sort of structural thing.
In terms of what it takes to get there,
I do think that because lawyers provide
almost an insurance to make sure that an
expert said something looks good,
they'll always be in the loop for most
for a lot of types of legal work. There
are like, and you know, I can get into
hot takes on what kinds of legal work is
going to be fully automated. But I think
the key here is knowing exactly when to
escalate something up to a lawyer and to
get their thumbs up and to know that
that liability is covered. And you know,
right now we have malpractice insurance.
We take liability for all the work we
do. I don't think we exist as a business
if we don't do that. That's just that's
the key here is we have to be so certain
about the quality that we're able to to
to stand behind it.
>> So cool. Can you give us a peek at
what's happening under the hood on the
technology side? You mentioned, you
know, you have three beloved foundation
model partners. Like what are you using
each of the different models for and
what scaffolding have you built on top?
Yeah, I think what we found is the
state-of-the-art um is not specifically
tuned for contracts because there's not
enough data in the corpus out there.
>> Yeah, diversity of data is like bitter
lesson um even if it's just for the
legal domain and you want models that
are trained generally
>> and these contracts are so hidden away.
The best data set is Edgar. when you
attach SEC filings and that data has
just been um
so overutilized and doesn't apply to
these smaller so yeah it's been an issue
>> I think the other part is in terms of
infrastructure really constantly like
Ryan said benchmarking this with all the
environments we set up for these agents
to understand what they're good at what
they're bad at and bringing that back to
that quality score that I mentioned
earlier this is why I think every team
needs someone both the domain expert and
the engineer and I I think this is why
we'll see more of these vertical AI
startups is because having that person
inhouse gives you such a competitive
edge rather than maybe buying a data set
from a large company that outsources a
lot of like labeled data to contract
lawyers or things like that. And then in
terms of like so you know the way it's
set up today right we have lawyers um
most of whom have big law experience and
are pretty proficient in these kinds of
agreements um who are driving right and
so they're seeing and this is what's
quite interesting and to John's point
like the subtleties of the ways you
change language within a contract um are
something that AI
seems to struggle with a bit more than
we'd imagine. So John and I like to joke
the difference between the term
commercially reasonable and and
reasonable are actually sub
substantively different things to a
lawyer. They look very similar in
embedding space. So those are like but
these are the new nuance you really have
to pick through. Um but what AI is
amazing so you have lawyers sort of
driving there and really um measuring
kind of um intervening for the quality
on on actual edits to a contract. What
AI is great at is summarizing right? So
being able to predict the right comment
to make to explain a change. Interesting
thing we learned in about May. If you
can give a really thoughtful explanation
as to why we can't accept this language
or we or we or we really are pushing for
that language, the counterparty will get
will sort of understand what you're
getting at and accept it. It reduces
turns, right? So, it's worth investing
in AI to explain what you're doing.
Another thing we realized is this is
actually very specific to a company.
These aren't legal questions. This is
like, you know, some of our clients are
not super sophisticated, but you have to
understand the fundamentals of the
cursor IDE or the fundamentals of how
Clay, you know, uses um sales data. It's
just like to if you're a procurement
person to know what you're buying. So
this all and this happens in the
contract, right? And so um you can
unlock a lot of speed for lawyers to
feed them all this data in the right
place at the right time in the right
parts of the contract. Um and these are
huge unlocks as the client experience
it. It just feels like we've made it
super natural. You just I mean by that I
mean very natural. You know it's right
in Slack. You just tag Crosby. We've
made a big bet on Slack I think more and
more apps. It's just so easy to use and
tag Crosby. You send up the document.
you get it back, you know, within a
couple hours with some thoughts, with
some comments, and with an explanation.
Um, and so we've built quite a bit on
top of that. I think email is the other
obvious choice. Um, but we didn't want
any interface. We just wanted to feel
like you're talking to somebody who's
looking at this for you. And yeah,
>> and circling back to the point on
infrastructure,
you know, getting an agent to be really
good at NDAs and MSAs and DPAs and all
the, like I said, coming back to the
point around the longtail, you really
want to one give agents really good
tools, and then two, give them really
good context and make sure they're
trained and set for a specific task. And
when you're thinking about the specific
task, whether that's an NDA agent for
cursor and making sure they're set up
for success and actually able to review
those contracts really really quickly.
Today we've basically built a parallegal
agent and which is like in charge of
routing all the work from like you know
that comes in from our like customers in
the same way that a parallegal would at
a law firm and then routes it to a human
lawyer and make sure the work is
assigned effectively.
The next step is like how do you think
about a junior associate, a senior
associate, and a junior partner at a law
firm and and think about like actually
replacing these roles in that way
>> and the actual specialty jobs that
they're focusing on.
>> Makes sense. You have any favorite work
workhorse models?
>> I really liked
5. I don't know when this
>> hot day. Yeah, me too.
>> My my teammates make memes for me about
it.
>> Wait, why? Yeah, you say more. I think
it's actually been pretty good in terms
of the thinking and pro models for some
legal tasks and Gemini 2.5 Pro has been
really good at legal tasks as well.
>> Super interesting. Do you think that the
path to the promise for you promised
land for you will be kind of our tuning
to each individual law firm and lawyer
or do you think it's any prompting like
any any religion or any gut instinct on
what the kind of uh what's going to take
you to the to the promised land for
automating these contracts fully?
>> Well, I think like Ryan said the thesis
is how do you still keep that human
touch for like psychological safety? I
think the promised land comes from
really good context engineering and
providing it to the right because what
great product council do and what great
commercial council do is keep just a ton
of information in their working memory
about here's how this company works.
Here's how the background on this
>> um specific playbook. Here's how this
NDA last time went when we negotiated
against this company.
>> Loading all that into the working memory
is going to be really important. I think
I'm really optimistic about a lot of
these reinforcement learning techniques.
So reinforcement fine-tuning was
something we experimented with early on
for comment generation like Ryan
mentioned and have experimented it with
it for a lot of other opportunities as
well. And so pretty optimistic there.
>> My take is like let the lawyers cook,
you know, get them writing prompts.
>> They're they're
>> Do your lawyers cook? Say more.
>> Yeah.
>> Are they writing prompts?
>> We speak to so many lawyers, you know,
who are like,
"All I hear about is AI. I want to learn
more. I'm curious. I want to be part of
it."
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And you know, you're like, "Have you
used it before?" "No." And we're like,
"Okay, how's this going to play?" And
they're like, it's like, it's like the
look on their fa We have I'm thinking of
one lawyer particular on our team. The
look on her face the first time she saw
some of the tools we were doing and she
just it like like the lights turned on
like it was so it was so neat. And so
like to get them access to like actually
like write prompts, give instructions,
teach all these things that are like in
your head, but you wouldn't even know
how to explain them to someone. And it
it's actually quite complicated to like
try to tease these things out and
explain them. I think lawyers are quite
good at learning, but in a law firm
structure as much time goes into
apprenticeship. It's a teaching
hospital. You don't actually spend that
much time getting really good at
teaching because you just do it through
reps and reps and reps and reps. And so
actually explaining things um is
something that like I think is going to
be a very prized skill for not just
lawyers but for any domain experts but
in particular lawyers and we're seeing
it like they when you can make an AI do
this thing that you've been doing and
not enjoying doing it is like the most
magical experience ever and we're
watching that like on a weekly basis.
What's the coolest thing has created?
And maybe just like describe how you
even create a culture where lawyers are
prompting themselves, you know, they're
they're actually playing themselves.
>> So I like I'll give a big shout out like
I like we have to give kudos to Harvey
for building a building like such a
center of gravity to show that like
lawyer that you know they invented this
job title I think called um
>> applied legal research which is
brilliant and like that is what lawyers
are doing. They're right. And um you
create this culture that really praises
that. You know, it doesn't just praise,
you know, you look at lawyers at law
firms, they're measured really on one
vector, which is hours built each year.
We're trying and so we give a lot of
public praise for
being
sort of meta aware of the work you're
doing and trying to measure it out. So
we have so we have one lawyer who like
you know kind of mentioned he thought we
could be doing things better and I said
tell me a bit more. And a week later he
built this like I I I taught him Miro
which was like a huge aha moment for him
and he made this huge process map that
like it was like we we we have to get it
printed professionally. so big and like
it was one of the best moments for all
the engineers like but like we like we
we we were so excited about it and so we
created this culture like we really
praise you know we're doing a lot of
repetitive the same kinds of work but
there are ways that we can just like
step out of that and think bigger and so
we're really and so you really
incentivize lawyers again because your
incentive is to get the tat the total
review time lower and lower to be the
ones driving that um and so it's been
neat and you know there's so many other
things that we're just beginning to
scratch the surface of like
organizational design, structuring your
team so that there's both lawyers and
engineers all towards the same outcomes
and so they all have to collaborate
together. But these are the keys and
these are the really hard things.
>> Let's talk about New York. You're
building an AI company in New York. That
is contrarian. Tell tell us more.
>> It's not contrarian to us.
I think the New York tech scene has gone
through a lot of different arcs.
the first arc of, you know, the early
2000s, a lot of these ad tech companies
that were emerging after, you know,
the.com boom where, you know, these like
app nexus and all these other companies
that just exploded and then there was a
second wave of all these, you know,
deeply technical engineers that came out
of these adtech companies spinning off
and creating, you know, these more dev
tool, you know, like MongoDBs,
uh, of the world. In parallel, there
were a lot of also trading firms in New
York, right? So you can think of the
Jane Streets, the HRTs, the Citadels. So
the New York tech team had this as like
its base framework. What happened in the
last 5 to 10 years is a lot of you know
more and more senior engineers were
coming out of those places to the point
where a lot of what building a startup
is about is actually knowing what a
great growth trajectory looks like and
understanding how do you not just go
from like 1 to 10 but zero to one. And
so these were great breeding grounds and
now we've seen a ton of companies start
spawning out of like these whe whether
it's in dev tools and devx or thinking
more you know I think a really great
example is ramp where I remember one of
the first Kareem told me this story
about how they had a YC company it was
called parabus and it was based in New
York they said that I think they might
have been the only YC company in New
York and 2013 or something like that.
The reason it's so interesting is
because they had a candidate who
applied, extremely talented developer,
incredible resume. They asked him, "Why
did you apply to work here?" And he
said, "One simple reason. I filtered by
New York City on YC and you were the
only company there."
And so, we've come a long way since
then. I think, you know, RAMP has been
just an incredible place and there's
many other companies in New York now
coming out of that as well. Um, I think
where you can take a lot of great young
talent, teach them right from these
people who worked at these places like
App Nexus and all these other places of
like other startups that have scaled,
apply those learnings and and create a
truly generational company like RAMP is.
There was an interesting survey. I think
Pat talked about this as well or you
might have mentioned it where there was
a survey from Neo or someone else where
most news wanted to be in New York in
2021 2022
and it's so interesting where if you
just follow that as a leading indicator
of like where do all the really smart
hungry highs slope you know young
engineers want to be and I think that
was New York.
It also allows you to break out of the
AI echo chamber a little bit and and do
things a little bit differently and just
hearing how you guys speak it is, you
know, it's refreshingly uh first
principles. I do think like we I you
know we're probably here every few
months for various reasons and I feel
like we come here to dream
>> and then we go back to New York to build
>> and and like and the subject matter
expertise there is so dense in finance
um in the creative fields
>> healthare healthare law
>> obviously in law
>> um and you sort of distill like all the
really crazy idea like you come here and
you're like it's not AGI it's ASI like
you like you learn all this like right
and then you go back and then you like
you really apply it and you sort of like
you know like the water goes through the
sand and it comes out with something
that kind of just works and that's been
really special to be part of.
>> Yeah. And I think for us really you know
taking these domain experts with really
deep expertise and combining them with
these like high slope new grads as well
as these people who are like either
experienced founders or want to be
founders again. Our entire founding
engineering team like is all either
previous founders or wants to be
founders. I think that mentality is
really what it takes because in some
ways like Ryan said, you're like
building these pods and like these
you're working with one or two lawyers
and your customer is sitting right next
to you is like such a unique opportunity
in terms of like the amount of dev
cycles and like product loops you get
and I think that's really special.
>> I mean I think your name itself kind of
echoes your your like tie to New York.
Maybe tell us a little bit about story
of the name. Well, there's a lot of myth
and a lot of lore over the name of
Crosby. One of the myths is that John
and I were going these long searching
existential walks back last summer
through Soho and we kept finding
ourselves Crosby and it's a beautiful
old street in a very modern neighborhood
and it kind of to us spoke about being
an essentially New York company that has
all the best artisansship of the old and
all the modern steel glass of the new
and it combines it nicely. But that's
just one. And it could be after the
hockey player also.
>> Could be after the hotel. Could be
anything.
>> Our office manager's dog was named
Crosby.
>> Really?
>> Yeah.
>> Her dog.
>> Maybe tell us a little bit more also in
terms of just having built in New York
like what what is different about the
company culture actually? Like how do
you think it is distinct from a typical
AI company maybe here in SF? I do think
I I don't know why this would be a New
York thing, but I'm seeing it more and
more in some of our friends companies,
other sequoia companies in New York.
There's a huge bias to starting things
to being founders. And the way that
we've been able to convince people to
join us is by saying this will be your
stepping stone for four or five years.
And we have to live up to that by the
way. Like it's actually not it's like
it's not trivial. We have to make sure
that like when we get invited to a
founder dinner, we send someone else in
ourstead, which I think annoys people,
but it's pretty awesome for them.
But um but what's interesting is in this
type of company which is in a lot of
these on the application layer um as
John mentioned you need that level of
autonomy and agency and creativity of
that fundamentality of like this is my
thing and I'm going to figure out how to
build it um with my pot of lawyers and
I'm going to I'm going to solve this and
then I'm going to come back. And so I
don't know why but we keep seeing more
of this. I do think Ramp's a big part of
the story. I think RAM has become a
founder factory and um sort of
culturally that permeates all throughout
New York and we feel it. Um, so I'm
actually like really excited and I'm
curious to watch the next four or five
years of like all of these kind of like
the next the next wave of folks coming
out and starting things.
>> Yeah. I think one other uniquely New
York thing is just the emphasis it feels
like on design. You know, RAMP is a
product that's really prided for his
like great design and product taste. I
think a lot of that can be traced to
just the depth and creativity levels at
these design agencies and other great
firms. One last thing, people in New
York like pizza. I feel like it's really
hard to get a proper New York slice or
any slice in San Francisco.
>> That's how we celebrated.
>> That's how we celebrate pizza.
>> So, we have real two pizza teams in New
York.
>> Not like Domino's.
>> Yeah. No, very real. Okay, we need the
hot takes. What type of legal work is
going to be completely automated?
>> So, legal work.
There's about 11,000 law firms which
account for 8% of all law firms in the
US that account for about 70 75% of
revenue. still a lot of law firms, but
there's this huge tale of these other um
you know 92% that that make up the rest.
And those 92% focus on individuals um
helping you with um child support
payments and leases and like all the
sort of human things and they're like
horribly underserved by lawyers. It's
almost immoral and we talk about all the
time in law law school and everybody has
really lofty dreams to kind of do
something about this and it's not really
being touched and um
I think this work will be automated
entirely because the alternative is
nothing
>> and I think and it just and like we'll
have no and like and like I suspect that
anybody right now can negotiate a
landlord kind of lease with Chach today.
I think a lot of people do.
I think that the corporate law firms are
going to are here to stay for quite a
while and those jobs are quite safe. So,
it's like sort of a net new type of
legal skew that's going to be totally
automated. But it's not that we're
taking a law a lawyer's job and
automating. It's just nobody's doing it
today.
>> Yeah, it's net new market creation.
>> Totally.
>> Why isn't it just chatbt that does it
though? I already kind of turn into it
for legal advice. Maybe maybe bad
strategy, but I
>> I think for a lot of this work it is. I
think like the the again the alternative
is nothing. The alternative is having
nobody look at it.
>> And my hope is that if you can add so
much leverage to lawyers that like you
know rather than looking at two
contracts an hour they can look at 500
like shouldn't we be able to have more
and more people getting serviced like
that. I think when we talk about the our
mission of Crosby is very lofty. It's
building a better legal infrastructure
with technology. This is what we're
talking about. This is like just so
leveraging the lawyers that we have. Um
this is it's an optimistic hot take. I
think it's the golden age for what
lawyers are going to be able to do in
the next 5 10 years being unlocked by
this.
>> Love that.
>> Do you have any Northstar metrics that
you run the company on?
>> Yeah, we run on total turnaround time,
which means
time in to time out. How long does the
contract take across all of the back and
forths? So, like Ryan said, you know, a
contract negotiation might have five
back and forths or two back and forths.
If you add up all the time that Crosby
has spent looking at a contract, that's
our northstar metric.
And that's very counterintuitive, right?
Most law firms are not trying to
maximize that number, but like that's
how they earn their billable hour.
>> Yep.
>> For us, it's about aligning incentives.
We want to not only do a faster job on
each individual turn. It's also about
how do we do a better job? How do we
like understand the right negotiation
levers for the business? I'm sure you
all have negotiated your fair share of
term sheets that are really high
velocity coming back and forth. For us,
it's really thinking about like how do
we minimize those back and forths and
also get faster every time.
>> How do you make that incentive align for
your customer? Like if you if you go
back to the term sheet example, the
fastest way I have of getting a term
sheet signed is to increase the increase
the post money valuation. So like um how
do you make sure that you know you're
not giving on your customers negotiating
leverage in order to kind of maximize
that north star?
>> Exactly. It comes back to guardrail
metrics as well. And so we really pride
ourselves we have I think one thing that
most you know startups that think about
these vertical AI opportunities is they
should have some type of team focused on
either environments for their AI agents
or quality metrics for their agents. And
the reason that matters so much is
because it's very easy to get misaligned
incentives of like taking shortcuts or
doing work that's like halfway there. We
have people on the team, both lawyers
and engineers, only focused on how do we
make sure quality is consistently
meeting our customers needs. And that
means not just doing good legal work in
an objective sense, but also, hey, is
this aligned with our customer's risk
profile? Is this, you know, in the best
interest of the customer's negotiation?
And distilling all that down into a
guardrail metric, combining that with
the total turnaround time we call TTA.
Um, and then I've learned that also from
ramp, you know, if you have pathy
metrics that you can really like rally
behind that are fun to say, it actually
does help just because people start we
yeah, we just came up with it, you know,
at one meeting and now the entire office
we just go around saying tat. We also
called this other metric, it's called
hurt, which stands for human hu review
time, RT.
>> Ah,
>> and so we're also trying to reduce the
amount of hurt.
>> Here's the hurt. I like the pininess of
this
>> and I think it's funny because I think
metrics, you know, you can talk about
them from a product perspective, but
there's something very innately human
and you want it to feel empathetic,
right? Like reducing hurt feels more
value aligned with how our lawyers
should feel and also the same way like
quality is so aligned with what our
customers are expecting from us. I think
one thing maybe I'll add
what you're t the other ways that you
have to increase leverage in a
negotiation you know in in a fund raise
is like set deadlines like increase the
pressure like there's a lot of ways and
I think contracts are so interesting
because they're so human fundamentally
it's just like an abstraction of a
humanto human conversation about like
what can we agree on and so last summer
when we were kind of researching the
idea I'd actually spent time in India.
John's heard this story countless times
and there's a lot of offshore legal
services that do sort of back office
very routine contract negotiations for
Fortune 500 global companies and they
just take five rules and apply those to
a contract and just kind of go back and
forth and like negotiate against them is
like negotiating against the wall. They
just, you know, they kind of don't get
creative. But I had this one guy and I
said, "So like what do you do if you get
stuck?" He's like, "I have this really
creative thing I do. I just called them
and tell them that they're not going to
want to say no to, you know, this
company and we have a really long life
and we're going to want to interface.
And I was like, are you allowed to do
that? He said, I don't know. I just
started doing it. It works. Like, it was
so human and it made me so appreciative
of like the human element of these back
and forths. And so I do think like we're
unbelievably optimistic about how much
time we can reduce and how much more
efficient we can make the transactions
between um entities but also there's an
essential role for those counterparties
to have in interfacing with each other
to meet to have what we call meeting of
the minds right to really get to
agreement
>> totally
>> and at the same time I also wonder if we
had an AI agent with some type of
reinforcement learning if it just would
reward hack and realize that picking up
the phone would 100% convert
if I give it a tool call for phone
calls, but who knows?
>> Well, how do you think this plays out
though? Like let's say I imagine your
agent has never negotiated against
another one of your agents before in the
field. But like eventually, I'm guessing
people will have their agents
negotiating in DAS on both sides, right?
>> So I think this is this is the most
beautiful essence of what we hope we can
achieve here
>> is being able to capture each party's
preferences with their own sets of
agents
>> and have them simulate the negotiation.
>> Yeah. and be able to show an auditable
record of here was the first back and
forth and then the fifth and then the
seventh and here are what we netted and
what do you think is that reasonable and
that's your starting point and these are
fundamentally collaborative
negotiations. These are not adversarial
and so the goal here is actually to be
the collaboration platform to get people
to agreement faster.
>> So interesting. So each agent will kind
of have a sense of everyone's risk
preference, their bottom line,
>> their tolerance for waiting out the
negotiation, all
>> and I want the agent that's going to
like bang its head on the page. That's,
you know,
>> and like that's the one that you're only
spend more compute on.
>> The high inference agent.
>> Yeah. And yeah, I think fundamentally,
you know, partitioning the data, making
sure like this agent doesn't have access
to the other agents data and making sure
like it's just really taking what law
firms have already figured out of like
you, you know, set up a wall between
different teams and say negotiate
against each other. You can apply that
even in an easier way in a system
setting because you just don't need the
agents to talk to each other unless
through their specific guard rails.
>> Great. I'd love to bring it home by
asking a bit about the future of how you
guys see Crosby and how you see the
legal industry playing out. What what do
you think the legal industry looks like
in 10 years?
>> You know, I think coming back to the
point on taste,
increasing the leverage of these senior
partners at law firms, I get a little
worried about, you know, the junior
associates and the parallegals and the
opportunity for them. I can imagine it
just looks like a senior associate
managing an army of agents who can
increase their leverage. Maybe for a
personal injury firm, it's managing
intake and someone managing actually
drafting the demand letters and then
actually reviewing them. The main job of
the person is to show up in court and
everything else is handled by an agentic
system. But I'm curious for your take.
>> All right, I'm going to try to do this
quickly. In the 10-year period from 2007
to 2017, in-house legal teams grew 200%
and law firms grew 30%. And then again
from 2014 till 2024, they went from
about 320,000 to 440,000. In-house teams
are really, really expanding. And the
narrative seems to be that legal work's
getting more complex and companies need
much bigger in-house teams. And in-house
teams have a lot fewer constraints than
law firms. They can have not just
lawyers, they can have parallegals, they
can have legal operations, they can have
different types of work specializing and
they've become really creative and it's
this kind of huge change that's been
going on quite quietly. My hope is that,
you know, because these are not
companies that specialize in legal
services. These are just, you know, this
is the legal function. you'll see more
and more specialized companies that are
AI first because it's just so obvious
that are truly changing the way um legal
services get delivered. We are like a
small part in this and I'll go back to
what I said. This is the golden age. I
think like this is like we've never seen
true innovation in the legal market and
we're just at the beginning. I think
things are going to look very different.
>> And maybe given that future, what should
somebody in law school today do? Should
they drop out? What what what should
they be doing? I think this will go back
to the fabric of our company. I think
you want to question absolutely
everything. I mean like question the way
your professors tell you to write
footnotes. Like is that really
necessary? Question all there's so much
dogma and then balance that like it's so
fragile with understanding the
brilliance of legal academia. This is
what makes society run. Professors, my
my professors at Stanford truly are some
of the best mentors I've ever found and
some of the smartest people. And so
don't be arrogant but question
everything and come take time and do an
apprenticeship with Crosby. We'll teach
you how to prompt but like pro it's
important like these are the skills that
I think are really going to matter is
how to harness all the power of AI and
there's so much room to change things
and there's so many
things that accepted as just facts that
can all be permeable and it's hard to
see when you're in it. Yeah, I think I
won't say which company, but I went to a
conference. It was all general counsels.
Imagine Fortune 500. I won't name the
conference because I would like to go
back. But I sat next to this gentleman.
He was the general counsel of a very
large telecoms company, maybe one of our
phones, uh, runs on this telecoms
company. And I said, "Hey, have you like
ever tried any of this chatbt or AI
stuff?" And he said, "No, of course not.
My CEO keeps telling me to. I refuse. I
do not want to try it. And he's just,
you know, I think to Ryan's point, like
there's arrogance on both sides of like,
you know, questioning everything, but
also like, you know, being stuck in the
old ways as well is dangerous.
>> Makes sense. Well, I think question
everything and try everything seems to
be a good theme for all of us. So, thank
you guys again for coming on. Appreciate
it.
>> Thanks for having us. It's really fun.
[Music]